# Predicting Heart Disease
Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States with an average of 1 in 4 deaths taking place from a form of heart disease. It is important, then, to understand the underlying causes of it. Prediction will be at the forefront of this analysis since catching it early on can lead to preventing devastating outcomes. The following variables are going to be explored in relation to the absence/presence of heart disease: age, sex, chest pain type (cp), resting blood pressure (trestbps), serum cholesterol (chol), fasting blood sugar (fbs), resting electrocardiographic results (restecg), maximum heart rate achieved (thalach), exercise induced angina (exang), ST depression induced by exercise relative to rest (oldpeak), the slope of the peak exercise ST segment (slope), number of major vessels colored by flourosopy (ca), thal, and diagnosis of heart disease (num). Following that, a prediction model will be made to detect the absence or presence of heart disease (using logistic regression) and later the intensity of such heart disease if present (ordinal logistic regression). A prediction will then be made on a new patient, using the models that were just created. In the next section, data reduction will occur as the most predictable variables are selected. After which, the predictor variables will be applied to a model to assess where that individual falls both in presence of heart disease and severity of it. Then it will be compared to the original assignment for prediction accuracy.
